Perhaps the simplest learning rate schedule is to decrease the learning rate linearly from a large initial value to a small value. This allows large weight changes in the beginning of the learning process and small changes or fine-tuning towards the end of the learning process.
Perhaps the simplest learning rate schedule is to decrease the learning rate linearly from a large initial value to a small value. This allows large weight changes in the beginning of the learning process and small changes or fine-tuning towards the end of the learning process.
Dilated Convolution: It is a technique that expands the kernel (input) by inserting holes between its consecutive elements. In simpler terms, it is the same as convolution but it involves pixel skipping, so as to cover a larger area of the input.
Transposed convolutions are standard convolutions but with a modified input feature map. The stride and padding do not correspond to the number of zeros added around the image and the amount of shift in the kernel when sliding it across the input, as they would in a standard convolution operation.****
A Separable Convolution is a process in which a single convolution can be divided into two or more convolutions to produce the same output. A single process is divided into two or more sub-processes to achieve the same effect. Let's understand Separable Convolutions, their types in-depth with examples.
Depthwise Convolution is a type of convolution where we apply a single convolutional filter for each input channel. In the regular 2D convolution performed over multiple input channels, the filter is as deep as the input and lets us freely mix channels to generate each element in the output.
The depthwise separable convolution is so named because it deals not just with the spatial dimensions, but with the depth dimension — the number of channels — as well. An input image may have 3 channels: RGB. After a few convolutions, an image may have multiple channels.
A Capsule Neural Network (CapsNet) is a machine learning system that is a type of artificial neural network (ANN) that can be used to better model hierarchical relationships. The approach is an attempt to more closely mimic biological neural organization.
In a convolutional neural network, pooling layers are applied after the convolutional layer. The main purpose of pooling is to reduce the size of feature maps, which in turn makes computation faster because the number of training parameters is reduced.
The receptive field encompasses the sensory receptors that feed into sensory neurons and thus includes specific receptors on a neuron as well as collectives of receptors that are capable of activating a neuron via synaptic connections.
